# Enron Email Corpus Analysis

**Authors:**

**Team 2: Wenyan Du, Hongru Liu, Min Zhang, Zhuotong Liu**

## 1 Introduction

In this project, we developed machine learning algorithms to identify wrongdoing emails from Enron email corpus. After parsing those json files and conducting some data manipulation, we got a Pandas Dataframe with 251,734 rows and 11 columns. 

## 2 Definition of Wrongdoing

One of the wrongdoings of Enron is securities fraud, which includes account fraud and insider trading. Accounting fraud is the intentional manipulation of financial statements to create a false appearance of corporate financial health. Furthermore, it involves an employee, accountant, or the organization itself misleading investors and shareholders. This can artificially raise the worth of the company’s stock and encourage investors to buy shares of an unhealthy company. Insider trading occurs when someone with confidential information about a company's financial state uses that information to make decisions about whether to buy or sell the stock before that information is disclosed to the public. For example, a corporate accountant could notice that the company is losing money fast and heading towards bankruptcy. If the accountant places an order to sell his stock before notifying the board, he’s arguably guilty of insider trading.

## 3 Methodology

A topic modeling algorithm helped us to understand what major topics are included and determine what emails may be relevant. There are many ways to explore the topics of these emails. Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) is one way to do this. It is a bag-of-words algorithm that helps us to automatically discover topics that are contained within a set of documents. The underlying assumption is that any text is actually a bag of words that are generated by a distribution over distributions of a vocabulary, and our goal is to find the hidden underlying generative elements. From the highly related topic, we identified keywords related to wrongdoing and used them to find target emails.

